docs: add `dataProvider` section on new tutorial (#3305)
refinedev/refine: documentation/docs/tutorial/2-understanding-dataprovider/1-swizzle.md

---
id: swizzle
title: 2. Create Data Provider with Swizzle
tutorial:
    prev: tutorial/understanding-dataprovider/index
    next: tutorial/understanding-dataprovider/create-dataprovider
---

## What is Swizzle?

> The [`swizzle`](../../packages/documentation/cli.md#swizzle) is command in [`refine-cli`](../../packages/documentation/cli.md) that allows you to customize the supported components and dataProviders. It allows you to eject selected files from the package. Instead of starting from scratch, you can use the file as a starting point and make changes to fit your specific needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`swizzle`](../../packages/documentation/cli.md#swizzle) is a command in [`refine-cli`](../../packages/documentation/cli.md) that allows you to customize the supported components and data providers. It allows you to eject selected files from the package. Instead of starting from scratch, you can use the file as a starting point and make changes to fit your specific needs.
```

> The [`swizzle`](../../packages/documentation/cli.md#swizzle) is a command in [`refine-cli`](../../packages/documentation/cli.md) that allows you to customize the supported components and data providers. It allows you to eject selected files from the package. Instead of starting from scratch, you can use the file as a starting point and make changes to fit your specific needs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [`swizzle`](../../packages/documentation/cli.md#swizzle) is a command in [`refine-cli`](../../packages/documentation/cli.md) that allows you to customize the supported components and data providers. It allows you to eject selected files from the refine packages. Instead of starting from scratch, you can use the file as a starting point and make changes to fit your specific needs.
```

    next: tutorial/understanding-dataprovider/create-dataprovider
---

## What is Swizzle?

...

> ## Using with DataProvider

Reviewer 2: This section should explain the What is swizzle, why we need it and why we are we using very clearly.

> The [`swizzle`](../../packages/documentation/cli.md#swizzle) that comes with [`refine-cli`](../../packages/documentation/cli.md) allows you to customize the supported components and use them as your own. For data providers, this is a very useful tool.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [`swizzle`](../../packages/documentation/cli.md#swizzle) that comes with [`refine-cli`](../../packages/documentation/cli.md) allows you to customize the supported components and use them as your own. For data providers, this is a very useful tool.
```

> The [`swizzle`](../../packages/documentation/cli.md#swizzle) that comes with [`refine-cli`](../../packages/documentation/cli.md) allows you to customize the supported components and use them as your own. For data providers, this is a very useful tool.

Reviewer 2: The swizzle is a "refine-cli" command used for customizing some of the supported built-in "refine" packages and components. Thanks to the swizzle feature you don't have to stick to what "refine" offers by default, you have the freedom to customize "refine" packages and components according to our development needs.

In this section, we'll take advantage of "swizzle" feature to inspect "refine's built-in rest data provider" files and how to customize..

> In some cases, data providers do not fully comply with our API and it is necessary to change it. The [`swizzle`](../../packages/documentation/cli.md#swizzle) in [`refine-cli`](../../packages/documentation/cli.md) is a tool made for this. It can quickly eject and update all data provider files.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In some cases, refine's built-in data providers are not fully complying with our API needs and you may want to edit the existing data provider logic.. The [`swizzle`](../../packages/documentation/cli.md#swizzle) command feature in [`refine-cli`](../../packages/documentation/cli.md) can be use for that. It can quickly eject and update all data provider files.
```

> Let's swizzle `dataProvider` as an example.

Reviewer 2: Since this step is continuation of the app we built in the previous section, we need to navigate user on that manner.
So, navigate them with something like, remember we use rest api data provider on <Refine> component in "App.tsx".  Now we'll inspect how the dataprovider look like..

Reviewer 2: You can tell more about swizzle

 - src/rest-data-provider/utils/generateFilter.ts
 - src/rest-data-provider/utils/generateSort.ts
 - src/rest-data-provider/utils/mapOperator.ts
 - src/rest-data-provider/utils/index.ts

Warning:
You will also need to add axios to your project dependencies.

Usage

    ╭ App.tsx ─────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
    │                                                          │
    │   import { dataProvider } from "./rest-data-provider";   │
    │                                                          │
    │   const App = () => {                                    │
    │       return (                                           │
    │           <Refine                                        │
    │               dataProvider={dataProvider}                │
    │               /* ... */                                  │
    │           />                                             │
    │       );                                                 │
    │   }                                                      │
    │                                                          │
    ╰──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
```

> 

Reviewer 2: At this point we have the data provider files. So what's then?  
You need to tell where this files exported , how can they view.. Navigate them.
You can mention like, now you free to customize existing rest data provider according to your need or just leave it as is
